There was only Kievan Rus, only one was the great Kievan Rus - this is a time period, a time period if this is a time period, yes, that is, they made such a term Kievan Rus Yes, what other time periods were they called now Vladimir so the Vladimir principality was And what does the Vladimir principality have to do with to the Slavs in general Oh hello, it’s hard to hear Hello, I say Yes, good afternoon I’m from Ukraine, the city of Khmelnitsky, which city in Russia are you from? I know your channel, can I see the city of Russia Vladikavkaz Vladikavkaz is North Ossetia yes yes you are Ossetian Russian who are you Ossetian I was like once a guy from Ossetia he was wearing a mask yes I wonder if you chose Ukraine on purpose or by chance Maybe you have some questions for Ukraine Ukrainians don’t really have any questions but you personally support the war in Ukraine I yes Why is that your motivation my motivation is this that I always and everywhere support my troops. And the troops understood, that is, for example, some guy in Germany in the year also say I support my howls when she later In 1941, Jews were killed in the Soviet Union. So, well, then almost all the people supported Well, that is, you Do you think that this is right? If your troops are committing crimes, then you need to support them, everyone, if I see evidence that my troops are committing a crime, so your troops invaded a foreign country, all this is already a crime. For me, this is not a crime in this case in this case. No, for some reason, that is, you Do you think it’s still possible to attack other countries? Yes, I think that you can return your territories. It’s so interesting, here you are from Ossetia and you say an Ossetian from Ossetia will tell you that you need to return your territories. What are your territories? I mean the Russian Federation, what territories, what territories were here in the Russian Federation I can’t understand something until the 9th year of the first year there was always Russia in Eastern Ukraine Western - this is already Let me look until the ninety-first year there was a Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic always until the ninety-first year it was part of the Russian state What kind of Russian state was the Russian state Russian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic I remember I was born in the eighty-first year I lived for another 10 years until the ninety-first I lived here what year you were born 2004 2004 yes, that is, how many 18 already an adult look it turns out it was a Russian state Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic was a Ukrainian state Ukrainian Soviet Socialist The Republic was the Belarusian Soviet Socialist Republic, which territories in the current year belonged to the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, these territories that you have just listed, they became Soviet republics after the collapse of the Russian Empire during the Russian Empire, these were provinces. What does the Russian Empire have to do with it? The Russian Empire is some kind of that state that was a long time ago, moreover Okay history Yes, the territory of North Ossetia was at one time conquered by the Mongols Genghis Khan Genghis Khan no Tamerlane let's say Genghisid you can say so yes yes yes that is, it turns out Should Mongolia return these lands to itself no because they were conquered So wait So all the lands were conquered, Ukraine was conquered just like that, that is, it turns out again, look No, Ukraine was not conquered seriously Yes The Last Zemsky Sobor When you asked for help in the war with Poland, then Eastern Ukraine joined, including Kyiv, returned to the Russian state, I understood that is, Let's so that is, uh, the Moscow state, in its different names, it didn’t fight with Ukraine in any serious way. But for example, the Battle of Orsha, what was it? You can say the Battle of Orsha. Well, tell me, I don’t know. Well, on Google, what is the Battle of Orsha? who fought with whom the Russian-Lithuanian war who fought with whom so opponents on the one hand The Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland against the Russian state what was this Russian state called there was no such name Russian state Well, what year is it so X century 1914 Well then it was Moscow the kingdom seemed to be then No, I don’t remember exactly what it was called then, but what is the meaning of the name now? Let me read you the date of the Battle of Orsha Yes, in 1514 there was an army under the command of Prince Konstantin of Ostrog, so this is it from the territory of modern Ukraine, so modern Yes, the modern Ukrainian and Moscow armies they put Ivan and the servants at the head of the arch, these are the sides who fought, a great gesture, Moscow and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Russian and Samogitis, that's what Zhemaytis is, look at what the state was called, let's go to Wikipedia Maybe you have something wrong in Wikipedia, let's go to ours something is wrong Zaki Yes, it’s very interesting, that is, you don’t even know what the name of the state was. Yes, I sing Lithuanian, and look super, you opened Wikipedia. The Battle of Orsha you write like this, and on the side the picture is like this. Yes, below the opponents it’s written, here’s a great one, not here, the Grand Duchy Lithuanian Nadi Hover over it with your mouse and how does the full name highlight for you? Yes, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania Russe and Žemaitis, that is, your Moscow army fought against the prince of Lithuanian Russian and Žemaitis, how do you need to study this, I am in this Study yes, that is, it turns out that we are just stop stop stop stop Okay then I have a question, is the Ukrainian where the principality is, what, where there Ukraine is present, Ukraine is just present, this Russian Russia is present and the prince is from these territories Well, Prince Ostrovsky Where was he from from Moscow from here and then Well then there was already Ukraine correct No there was no such name Ukraine Yeah and the Russian Federation did not exist then Russian Federation then no no Well, what are you saying, that is, these are modern names, for example, what is the name of the state of Persia Iran Iran now? So that means that Iran Did not exist before the state of Iran did not it used to be Persia, it just changed Yes, the name Yes, well, well, that is, if we look at Ukraine like this and Russia, here Rus was on the territory of modern Ukraine and not in Moscow, it’s true, and not in Ossetia, on the territory of modern Ukraine, yes yes, but also not only on the territory of Ukraine So where is Novgorod Moscow is not Novgorod Moscow is not Novgorod Moscow they were not Russia they were they were territories they were subordinate to Rus' there are no stops from Novgorod to Kiev Who came then who and Well tell me Now Rurik Let's have Rurik there and then there is no Rurik the descendants of Rurik did not come Who and when Well, first Askold idir then Oleg That is, on what basis do you claim this on the basis of our textbooks But the textbooks yes That is, you didn’t think that their textbooks have a certain amount of propaganda No I don’t think not That is where you come from you know, where in history does this information come from, that they came to Kiev from somewhere there from Novgorod? Well, this is a question for historians. I think it’s not in the Tale of Bygone Years, which was written. In what century of heaven is it that 200 years from those events 200 from those events that historians talk about Long ago, well, already in the 20th century, they also proved that No archeology was found in that Novgorod in the 7th century there in the 1st century, if not And they tell you That is, if Russia you say that there was some kind of Novgorod Russia There and so on, where there was no Novgorod Rus. That is, there was only Kievan Rus, only one was the great Kievan Rus - this is a time period, a time period, if this is a time period, yes, that is, they made such a term, Kievan Rus. Yes, what other time intervals are they like? were now called Vladimi so the Vladimir principality was And what does the Vladimir principality have to do with the Slavs in general, let's look at the Vladimir Here is the principality where it was located on the map, you know Well, Seva name What Slavic tribes lived on the territory of the Vladimir principality here on the territory of Rus' where the Kiev I can say that the Drevlyans and the Northerners lived there in the clearings. But on the territory of Vladimir Suzdal I don’t remember what Slavic tribes lived on Vladimirskaya on the territory of the Moscow principality of the Vyatichi. The Vyatichi lived a little further down, on the map there is an EU. Say Vladimir of Suzdal, then the Finno-Ugric peoples lived there, the mayor’s office there. And so on. What do the Slavs have to do with Russia? You are now leading to the fact that the Russians are not sacred. I’m not talking about this now. I’m not talking about Russian. Who are the Russians? We can talk separately. I’m leading to the fact that the Vladimir Suzdal Principality was in territories not inhabited by the Slavs, but km for Well, I say Finno-Ugric peoples, for example Merya and Emi Take a map of the settlement of the Slavs there in the ninth century and look at Vladimir Suzdal where it is located, the principality then put it on the map I love you know when Russians also try to tell something about Russia there but when a person from Ossetia there are stories there, it’s generally interesting, well, these are territories that were developed when Kiev was the center of Kiev, look, let’s say now the capital of Russia where in Moscow yes So that means North Ossetia is part of the Russian Federation Well, does that mean that in North Ossetia Russians live and not Ossetians live in North Ossetia Russians No, well, the population of North Ossetia is mostly Ossetians, I really don’t know if if if Chechnya is now part of the Russian Federation, then Ramzan Kadyrov Is he Russian or is he a Chechen? A Chechen remains a Russian Well, a Russian is a citizenship citizenship And according to ethnic composition, he is a Chechen, a Chechen, and that is, from the fact that some territory is part of a certain state, so people remain that nation, so they do not automatically become Russian like residents of Moscow Yes, and absolutely also the territory of the Vladimir principality Yes, it was reinforced when it was subordinated to Kiev well, but it wasn’t Slavic tribes who lived there. Well, what does the Principality of Vladimir have to do with Russia? There’s a lot of it in the chronicles; yes, I’m going from Novgorod to Russia. So, I’m going from Vladimir to Rus'. How can it be if Vladimir is Russia and Novgorod is Russia? They were traveling from Novgorod to Russia from Vladimir to Russia. Well, look, this is the same as uh. So you say peoples are captured, they become Russian, but how do they become Russian? You said they don’t become Russian, they don’t stay like that, uh But then there were tribes like that and when a stronger state came, they obeyed it, and over time they disappeared altogether, or they simply accepted the language responsibly here or there. They became exactly the same Russians. Well, look, if for example, uh, let’s say, the Buryats start speaking Russian in Russian, they will become Russian from this no no they will become Buryats who were born Well, the Buryats now have their own language, their own region and their own Well, in general And then I say that the tribes absolutely lost their land, lost their language and became completely Russified That is, they Yes Look They just adopt the language Here for example, now in Brazil What is the language in Brazil? Spanish Portuguese Brazil Portuguese language Yes, and there are more native speakers than in Portugal itself Does that mean that Brazilians are Portuguese no, no Well, we’ll see Ronaldo, he’s clearly not Portuguese, though, that is, the language and ethnically are a little bit different there can be different things True Well, yes, that is, if we look, it’s just that all the Russians tell me something was there, Rus' was there Vladimir I’m asking What Slavic tribes then lived on the territory of the Vladimir principality there were no such And when some capital If you say that this is a temporary period because the Russians are throwing it all at you somewhere in school textbooks they wrote that Kievan Rus - This was a temporary period Yes, the term Kievan Rus Yes they introduced it in the Ilim century yes to designate but there were no other Rus if this is the time So well this is Rostov Yes, the Vladimir Sursky principality was inhabited by the Vyatichi Krivichi tribes, partly Elmekh Glorious Merya Urama, Merya Urama yes they were there and Vyatichi and Krivich even lived below Well, I looked at the maps and compared them Well, aren’t these Slavic tribes Well, the Vyatichi Krivichi they lived lower than Vladimir Suz and the rest below are on the map to the south of Mo so ve Murom Well, this is not Slavic Plevna this is Fino-Ugric now let’s google that this is Fino-Ugric yes this is not Slavic Merya the whole frame the territory of Vladimir Suzdal that in Russia is called Zalesye Well that’s what here’s the list Slavic tribes to see Which list of Murom again just Write a list of Slavic tribes Well, you also tell me Wikipedia Yes, a list of Slavic tribes Yes, any Well, I went to the list of Slavic tribes and below Well, there is a division into the South Slavic tribes there are West Slavic tribes so East Slavic tribes in the center So well so Wikipedia writes now, look there it says below Yes, the two is written above the word Merya and Murom there is a two, there is a footnote, now go down and read the footnote there the two will write a note and the two writes presumably Finno-Ugric tribes presumably yes and if you click in the same in the same Wikipedia Where were you there where was this deuce for example on Murom an article opens in the Russian Wikipedia Mura Mafina, an Ugric tribe that from the middle of the first millennium AD lived in the lower reaches of the city of Murom is mentioned in the Tale of Bygone Years as not Slavic and living during the fall of the Oka into the Volga And why are they then included in the East Slavic tribes? Well, I don’t know who the author of Wikipedia who made that page put them on the list of East Slavic ones, but did it off the mark. What is this Finno-Ugric Okay, so if you look, let’s go back to the tribes, we already understood that in no Vladimir dorm there were no Slavic tribes there, but let’s go back then if Kievan Rus is a time period, then what else was Russia then Moscow Muscovite Russia Well, not Russia anymore, but based on the center it was called the Moscow Principality Stop And when Who and when moved the capital from Kiev to Moscow so now I’ll tell you The devil brings me What kind of prince was there in Moscow when Moscow rose united everyone else around him What century is this the rise of Moscow approximately I’m actually not a historian I’m a programmer lawyer myself but when I I hear these stories from Russians about the transfer of some kind of Russia to Moscow or that I always have fun so at the end of the 14th century Moscow became not only 14 Okay And what happened then, look, let’s say it’s there in the 10th century, the middle of the 10th century, so the Mongols captured it Kyiv Moscow And so on, so then different territories of the former Russia, so well, when did anyone move the capital to Moscow in Russia? united around Moscow Moscow became the center of the center of which state Well, states and what does this have to do with Rus'? I mean, look, let’s say this was the Mongol Empire, well, then it fell apart, its parts entered another state, for example, Kazakhstan entered the Soviet Union there, what’s that? What does the Soviet Union have to do with the Mongolian Empire? No, no, so what does the Kingdom of Muscovy have to do with Rus'? Belarus, the capital of Kiev, all those territories remained, at a minimum, that the dynasty, the dynasties that ruled, Well, and the dynasties that were there in Kyiv, there were princes, and there were, Well, it was, well, look, it turns out that when you changed Rurikovich to Romana, it was no longer Russia. That is, whether Russia or not Russia depends on your ruler [music] Russia then began to be ruled by an even larger state, uh, in the center of which Moscow was so that is, I understand correctly if, for example, Putin has a son and he then becomes president of, for example, Sweden, so Sweden is Rus', something else, that’s already something else o So what’s the matter, what do you have to do with it, it’s something else, you gave an example, it’s illogical Why do you say that the heir If only there was Russia, so there was a huge family tree. There it was, so someone stayed in Rus' in Kiev, so someone was sent there to rule, to Zalesye, there to Suzdal, Vladimir. So they created some kind of principalities for themselves there, so in What does this have to do with to Rus' the most that is not direct Which is direct Well let's So in Kiev for example or there on the territory of this former Rus' and so the descendants of the Rurikovichs were also there and were there and so what do you have to do with Rus' you are somewhere there who knows where the descendants are The Rurikovichs united into one state in which Moscow was in the center so well Kievan Rus no longer appeared the Principality of Moscow Principality of Moscow which had nothing to do with [ __ ] Ru In general, the truth Where is the logic Why didn’t it have e Look, it was good Rus' with its center in Kyiv so let’s so it was, let’s say so, the Russian Empire was like this in the seventeenth year, the Empire then, yes, I’ll give an example in the seventeenth year in 1917, the Russian Empire collapsed and, for example, Finland appeared. Wait What can you repeat again you hang in 1917 So the Russian Empire ceased to exist and for example Poland appeared Finland appeared Independent so they appeared Okay al Alo heard yes I hear you Hello such a historian has disappeared I adore in Russian now I adore when someone especially there some non-Russian tells us about How there it is also how it is there blogger now Dima is he, uh, by patronymic rishatovich, that is, but he tells how he is Russian Rus' there too. Here is a guy from Ossetia and to me, a person who lives in the territory Yes, which was Russia, tells me that we are not Rus', somewhere there in the swamps there beyond Moscow there is Vladimir sul and not Rus' like what If we look at the ethnic component, then the Vladimir principality Yes, what kind of Slavs lived there, Finno-Ugric tribes lived there Yes, they sent a prince there, that’s how they sent the governor, for example, from Moscow they sent the governor to North Ossetia they sent the governor to Buryatia and so whether those people from this become Russian in North Ossetia or not They were simply sent an administrative unit, let’s say, that takes Tribute from them there, for example, that’s how they organize the processes. That is, if, conditionally, there in the British Empire Yes, which was in India, they sent a general there - the governor or whoever was there, I don’t know if the Indians became English from this, no, also the inhabitants of this Vladimir Suzdal principality, they didn’t become sons, they didn’t become Slavs because of this, that is, Rus' was multi-tribal, and it’s so funny to always hear from Russians. they are being zombified by this Great Imperial, such a pseudo-historian if there is a Russian where there was no connection SN Okay, good If we look where Rus' was, it was on the territory there of Kyiv, modern there is part of Zhitomir there, there is Poltava, Chernigov, If I’m not mistaken, these are the regions, yes Then it expanded even more there, in the Galician-Volyn princedom, Danilo Galitsky would have been the Russian king, the king of Rus', and those dudes who lived somewhere in the north in Zalesye, they were never called Russia, if in the Kyiv raids in Russian and there in Zalesye, Pereyaslav Zalessky was called that, that is, there there was Zalesie here Rus' Yes the gals here the gals there the gals disgusting because the Mary tribe lived this by the way yes from Alexander Polya uh I saw a lot of good correct things there is such a historian on Google Alexander Poly In the tube there are cool things that focus attention on them and if he is an Ossetian Ossetians, he tells us that we are some kind of Rurik, it’s good if they appeal that when he says that Kievan Rus is a time period. Yes, there was no word Kievan Rus in the chronicles. Well, then it wasn’t called it, historians designated it in order to understand this term more clearly, but it it was not called and it was Rus' but there were no other Rus. That is, they also had their own. This is Moscow. They call the ancient Russian state, it was never called this Moscow and then the ancient Russian state, these are their historians. Yes, they made such a term. That is, if we look Kievan Rus he says time period Well then tell me other time periods What were the Rus then Muscovite Rus there was no such thing Yes Novgorod Rus was not Vladimir su Rus' was not And when you ask a simple question well then in what year who moved the capital of Rus from Kyiv to where- then there in May and that’s it, and that’s where everything crumbles, that is, they want continuity from Kievan Rus to bring this all out, but what do you know, for example, Chechnya is now in the Russian Federation, so the center is in Moscow, then it separates, and since it was once in the Russian Federation, it called themselves as Russia, it would be funny, it would be so, that is, it’s even more funny that when this guy, where did he start, regains their lands, this is what all Russians have. This is how we remember How the wars began. Yes, there is World War II, the desire to return some historical Hitler, for example, is Austria. Yes, this German should be one single German state, that is, Austria, Austrians do not have the right to live in their own state, they should be in a German state. Yes, for some reason, because he decided so, and now Russia Yes, it will nourish in short some- then there is a year, but for some reason when they want to return a certain year Yes, they take exactly what they lost from this year, what they gained, they don’t want to give it back if you guys want to somehow return there to the fourteenth fifteenth 16th century, then give it back those territories from whom you squeezed out after this century, otherwise they tell us, but they don’t: Once upon a time They catch some moment, once you were part of the Russian Empire there. That all means it’s Russian land, but before that we weren’t part of empires Then there weren’t either Why are you catching this period And you want to return us to this period And you don’t want to return other territories to this period, that is, Take then Yakutia there like that Give these territories to the Yakuts Why did you conquer them, yes, that is, Russia is uh, you know, such a gopnik who is a lawless man, for him there are no things, it’s true that there are persuasion and agreements for them. It doesn’t mean anything, but today they received statehood there, and so, in the ninety-first year, the Russian Federation was created before that there was another state there Yes, the Russian Soviet Federative The Socialist Republic, which was created on the ruins of the dead Russian Empire and they are now starting their imperial rulers and their imperial population, they need to return it in this Ossetia shka in the Russian Empire so he doesn’t look at his history at the proud Alans there, he looks at him in They don’t tell the school the history of the Ossetians What kind of people you were and the Alans, how much of a people they were, let’s say, and what the historical value of families is told. Why, somewhere near Moscow in the swamps, in short, some prince of some fifth generation in the junior lines of Rurik, something like that collected and then called themselves Russian, they are all rewritten in the 14th century, wait, where is your hole like this, you all in the 14th century began to claim the name of claiming the history of Rus', that we are, like, a Russian state, they needed that they Nikita are incomprehensible, but from history the hole is not closed you think there’s nothing there, no one has ever moved the capital of Rus' from Kyiv somewhere there and it’s very interesting how Russian Wikipedia falsifies it, for example, the same thing here is the battle of Orsha Lithuanian state Yes, uh, he reads it Lithuanian when he tells him that it was Lithuanian Russian Zhemaitis What kind of thing are you telling Russa when I tell him? Move your mouse and look, go specifically not just Du Lithuania Yes, and he comes in and he is Lithuanian Russian and he has an explosion in his head That is, it turns out Moscow Yes, in the battle of Orsha Yes, she fought with Yes, the state of Lithuanians Russians like Mighty Yes ru sons and jam with Russia Lithuania jam, that is, there is a lot and we all need to fill in the gaps in our history, understanding our history Yes, because we are not professional historians and very often we live in peace, but when there is [ music] uh this threat is Russian They want to replace the Basis we are nobody here Ukraine doesn’t come from anywhere Like we are somewhere out there in the swamps we are this Rus' Yes we must fight for this Rus' in our heads we must convey first of all to to our compatriots Yes, and secondly to them, they must understand that they are being dipped in theirs, this is imperialist Propaganda piss Please deprive the comment, give a like, our work is very important and important Ale, we may rubbish so that no one is for us and don’t give a damn Glory to Ukraine write nay Instagram